The war for freedom continues
whilst heroic deeds are done
throughout our territory.
Our magnificent loyalist militia
have expelled the fascists from Madrid.
The defeated totalitarians head north
with the aid of the enemies of freedom:
The Italian fascists and German Nazis,
aiming to attack
the impenetrable North Democratic Belt.
From the Basque Country barricades,
tireless militia will defend democracy,
prepared to sweat blood.
A frightened Franco
seeks help from Hitler
and his Condor Legion,
led by Von Richthofen,
cousin of the Red Baron himself.
To stop them, the Soviet Union has sent
their bravest to fight for democracy
on the battlefield
with a message of death to the fascists.
We will not allow fascist fallacies
to poison our spirit.
We won the battle in Madrid.
We shall win!
Hey, what are you doing?
I was transmitting my article.
I work for a French newspaper.
You know the rules.
If you tell your paper
we're losing the war, we cut you off.
It's better than canceling your permit
or arresting you, which we can also do.
Please...
- I'm just trying to do my job.
- So am I.
Carmen, I want a copy of his articles
one hour before transmission.
It's the first time
he's been sent as a journalist.
How are you feeling?
You don't look too good.
I didn't sleep well.
I've a lot on my mind.
Vasyl is waiting for you in his office.
Go on.
You'll pay for it.
Hit him, hit him.
- What's going on?
- He'll be hanged.
- He's lucky if that's all.
- His plane was shot down.
He's one of the German bomber pilots.
Wait, sir!
Wait! Do you want an apple?
Thank you!
They have snipers.
They've shot two of our men.
We'll rescue them.
Come back here!
Don't do that! It's dangerous!
Help me.
Please.
Help!
That picture is important.
Publish it.
Together.
Absolute perfection.
Thank you.
Gentlemen, your results!
Thomas is first with 16 hits,
Matthias is second with 12
and Wolfgang is third with 9.
So this week's bonus is for Thomas Selber.
Are you saving up
for the wedding or a house?
No, I came here to buy this truck.
- These Spanish girls would be cheaper.
- Attention!
Lieutenant Colonel Von Richthofen!
Stand to attention!
Discipline.
Gentlemen, discipline!
We have lost men through pilot error.
One was saved by his parachute,
but he was taken to Bilbao.
Two others died in a car accident
coming back
from one of those parties.
Don't forget,
we lost the Great War
but today might be our second chance.
Yes.
- Does anyone know how to fix a car?
- Yes.
Thank you, Nicolie.
Exactly.
Come on.
Thank you.
- Where's the journalist from Madrid?
- No idea, he's always late.
Let's go.
I'll come up shortly.
- Morning, my Lieutenant Colonel.
- Good morning, Wolfgang.
Berlin wants
better air and land coordination.
With the Spanish? Impossible.
The engine is fine but check piston two.
The Spanish aren't the only ones,
Wolfgang.
The Italians are pretty much the same.
We learn something new every day.
Meanwhile our men are holding out
against syphilis and diarrhea.
Minister Göring wants to bomb a city
as a birthday present to Hitler.
Fine.
It's a nice present for our Führer.
He will see
what the German Air Force is capable of.
- Hello.
Hi.
Shit!
- You'd better go home, it's late.
- Right away. See you tomorrow.
They must stay with the group.
And you'd better be careful.
I owe you one.
Why are you here?
You know you're not welcome.
Go away!
Are you driving us out? You?
When my son returns,
you'll be the one to be driven out!
We all know which side your son fights on.
On the fascists' side!
Leave it!
I won't sell you anything.
No beetroots,
no leeks, no carrots,
no cauliflowers. Nothing!
You'll change your mind
when ours come along,
when it's too late!
- Are you sure?
- Come on.
We are 35 kilometers away from the front.
It's about to break.
The Spanish have asked us
to attack with full force.
They will retreat through the mountains,
along that road.
Franco wants to stop them here.
He'd better make sure we get the ammo
and the fuel we were promised.
They must make sure our bills are paid.
I've spoken with General Mola.
He wants us to bomb
all of the Basque factories.
Really? His own factories?
The Spanish don't think about the future.
Soon there will be no tomorrow for them.
Teresa! What a joy!
It's been so long.
Nice girl!
This is Henry, Marco and Marta.
- Foreign reporters.
- Welcome.
Look at you, you look exhausted.
Auntie...
She doesn't sleep.
- She's too sensitive for this job.
- Stop it.
It's none of their business.
Answering back,
just like she did with her father.
Teresa!
Isabel.
What a surprise!
You look lovely.
What a joy!
Just in time to see my wedding dress.
Yes.
- What did he say?
- Congratulations.
Thank you.
A photograph.
- Yes.
- Yes?
That's uncle's car.
It's always broken down.
I'll show you my dress.
Hello?
- American?
- Yes, American.
If you want to buy me a new car.
Not good...
It's the carburetor.
It wouldn't happen with a Spanish car.
Bad times for everyone.
We're better here than in the city.
We grow vegetables
and exchange things with neighbors.
But in Bilbao...
We need it,
our daughter is getting married
and we'll have to visit her.
Or if we have to leave here in a hurry.
Is it better to send Begoña
and my daughter to Bilbao?
If I were you,
I'd leave as soon as possible.
God, help me!
It's Teresa, as a child.
Her father, a football player.
Football!
Ferocious, like Teresa.
Do you like it?
I drew it myself.
It's at the dressmaker's.
My boyfriend hasn't seen it yet,
he's at the front.
I wanted a man's opinion.
Very pretty.
Really?
Do you think it's pretty?
Very, very pretty.
Come on. Lunch is ready!
Yes, we agree to the plan.
Please,
inform Franco that after the operation
he must advance quickly to Bilbao
or he will miss a golden opportunity.
The General always advances slowly,
he prefers to shoot his enemies
house by house.
Yes, but delays cost money.
There's no Republican aviation
in the area.
They only have one plane in Bilbao
and it's being repaired.
Splendid.
- Where's the ten of hearts?
- Here you are.
No, it hasn't come up.
Thank you.
Perhaps she has it.
It's magic.
A toast!
For the magician!
American, cheers!
Uncle will play a song.
I hope you like it.
- Yes!
- We can dance, if someone teaches me.
- Can I?
- Yes.
Let's see.
- I've no idea.
- It's very easy.
Go, go!
Gentlemen,
thermite!
In just a few seconds, it reaches 1,000°C
and melts anything
it comes into contact with.
During the 8 minutes it burns,
it can't be put out with water nor sand.
First, we shall bomb
their water supply systems,
so they cannot put out any fire.
Then we'll incinerate
everything with thermite.
German efficiency at its best:
Minimum intervention,
maximum destruction!
Hold it! Don't move! Hands up!
- Do you know something?
- No.
APPROVED
You're wrong.
The sacrifices we've made in Spain,
the savings on ammunition and fuel
have not been in vain.
They've been talking about it
in Berlin for months.
A three-day air raid
carried out in just one afternoon.
As fast as lightning.
We've received orders
to put it into practice
during our attack today.
Therefore, gentlemen...
enjoy your flight...
to Gernika.
A magnificent day.
Ideal for a drive along the beach,
don't you think?
Good luck, boys!
Everything will be OK!
Take your clothes off!
- No.
- Undress!
It's lovely, how much is it?
We have to go to the shelter!
Come on!
Isabel! Where are you going?
To the tailor's!
- Have you gone mad?
- My wedding dress!
Come back!
Planes!
Get to the shelter! Come on!
To the shelter!
To the shelter! Come on!
Quickly!
Let's go to the bomb shelter.
Take him!
No, no, no!
Come on! Hurry up!
To the bomb shelter! Hurry up!
Come on!
To the City Hall!
To the shelter! Come on!
Leave that!
Go to the City Hall shelter.
My car!
Hurry up!
- I need your help.
- Over there!
My dress! It's my dress!
Help me.
Help, I've no strength!
Teresa. Yes, come on, let's go.
Bastards!
Come on, let's go to the shelter.
- Cheka?
- Go with him!
Young lady, don't!
Let's go.
The Italian Legionary Air Force
awaits orders.
The three Italian SMs
are awaiting orders.
This way!
Freeze!
This is a restricted area!
- Open the damn door! The mayor sent us!
- You've no jurisdiction here!
Stop!
Why are you here?
Get out! Get out!
- Drop the gun, boy!
- Drop it.
I have orders to shoot!
Help!
Help! Please!
Open the door, please! Help!
Let us out! Let us out, please!
Please, let us out.
Get the keys! On the wall!
Get out!
Come on, let's go!
Planes again!
- Murderers!
- Run, they're coming back!
- Open up!
- You can't come in, it's full.
You can't come in.
- Have you seen my mum?
- Don't worry. She's coming.
- And my dad?
- Yes, don't worry.
- My God!
- It hurts.
Don't worry, calm down. Look.
Bite this, okay?
Bite it hard so your eardrums don't burst.
I've got enough for everyone.
Bite it.
Bite it hard. Good, bite it.
Little guy!
Bite it, that's it, hard!
- And for me?
- Wait, I think I've got another.
- Will this do?
- Yes, perfect.
- Thank you.
- There, bite it hard.
Go with your side.
Sit down.
Don't look. Shut your eyes.
- What happened to them?
- Nothing, they're asleep.
Help!
Sorry.
There's nothing I can do.
I'm so sorry.
Stop!
Don't move!
One more step and I'll shoot.
Whatever they need.